www.dps.texas.gov/DriverLicense
Safety Tips
Please follow these general safety tips when
operating a vehicle:
 Always drive defensively. Try to anticipate errors
another driver might make.
 Be aware of your surroundings. Check your
mirrors, look both ways at intersections, and look
over the proper shoulder before making a lane
change or merging with traffic.
 Steer smoothly and avoid sudden turns.
 Accelerate and stop smoothly. Slow down or
speed up gradually to avoid sudden jerks.
 Be aware of where you have to stop when
approaching an intersection. If your view is
blocked, stop, then move forward carefully. Look
both ways before continuing into the intersection.
Do not roll through stop signs or red lights.
 Always obey posted speed limits. When poor
weather, road, or traffic conditions are present,
reduce speed accordingly.
 Use the two-second rule to ensure you are
following at a safe distance. Increase the
following distance for poor weather, road, or
traffic conditions.
 Know what all traffic signs and signals mean and
obey them at all times.
 Use the correct lane. If you are in the improper
lane, signal and turn into the proper lane.
 Put your signal on 100 feet before turning or
changing lanes.
Driver Safety Checklist
Before Starting the Vehicle
Adjust the mirrors and your seat
Fasten your seat belt
Know where the vehicle controls are located
and how to use them (headlights,
windshield wipers, turn signals, etc.)
During the Drive Test
Use the turn signals when appropriate
Look in the mirrors regularly and over your
shoulder when necessary
Keep both hands on the steering wheel
unless you are backing up
Stopping
Check traffic
Stop completely behind crosswalk or limit
line
Stop smoothly without the vehicle “jerking”
Turning or Changing Lanes
Signal 100 feet before starting maneuver
Adjust speed for safety
Check mirrors
Look over your shoulder for the blind spot
Begin and end maneuver in correct lane
Yield or accept right-of-way as appropriate
Always
Check mirrors at regular intervals
Look both ways at all intersections
Look for and obey all traffic lights and signs
See and react appropriately to hazards
Follow at a safe distance (adjust for
weather)
To empower the citizens of our state with trusted
credentials that enable security, mobility and opportunity.
DRIVER LICENSE DIVISION
Driver License (DL)
How to Prepare
for a Drive Test
DL-60 rev. 03-2026
Help keep Texans safe.
Be a responsible driver. Who Must Take the Drive Test?
You are required to take a drive test if any of the
following conditions apply:
 You have never been licensed in any U.S. state
or territory.
 You are licensed in another state, but your
license has been expired over two years.
 You are licensed in Texas, but your license has
been expired over two years.
 You have a medical condition that may affect
your ability to safely operate a vehicle.
 You currently have specific restrictions on your
Texas driver license which require a driving test
to be removed.
 You were ordered by a court to comply with a
driving test.
A drive test is not required for renewals or for anyone
over age 18 surrendering a valid driver license or
license not expired over two years from another
state; however, DPS may require a drive test at any
time. Anyone under age 18 must take a driving test.
Preparing for the Drive Test
To prepare for the drive test, review the Texas Driver
Handbook. This free handbook is available online at
https://www.dps.texas.gov/internetforms/
getForm.ashx?id=DL-7.pdf
Practice all of the maneuvers listed in the “Driver
Safety Checklist” section before scheduling your test.
While practicing, ask the person with you to give you
instructions and point out any mistakes.
Scheduling a Drive Test
All Driver License offices now offer the
option of scheduling your drive test online.
To schedule a drive test, visit
https://public.txdpsscheduler.com
Vehicle Inspection
Before you begin the drive test, the vehicle you bring
must pass an inspection to ensure it is safe and can
be legally operated on public roadways.
The License and Permit Specialist will check for:

 Two license plates with the exception of single
out-of-state or temporary plates; no auto
dealership plates
(permanently affixed to the front and back of the
vehicle)
 Operational speedometer
 A properly functioning horn
 Turn signals on the front and back of the vehicle
 Unexpired vehicle registration and inspection
 Unexpired insurance
(applicant cannot be listed as “excluded driver”)
 At least one rearview mirror inside or outside of
the vehicle
 Driver and front passenger door must open
normally
 Functioning seatbelts
 Brake lights
 Windshield wipers, headlights, and taillights,
depending on weather conditions and time of day
 Any restrictions on the driver license
Before the Drive Test
You must present one valid form of identification to
the License and Permit Specialist before the drive
test.
Try to ask all questions before your drive test begins.
Once the test starts, the License and
Permit Specialist is not permitted
to engage in general conversation.
During the Drive Test
No pets or unauthorized passengers are allowed in
the vehicle during the test.
The test takes about 20 minutes. The goals of the
drive test are to determine your ability to safely
operate a vehicle and obey traffic laws.
You will be graded on your ability to demonstrate the
following maneuvers:
 Backing in a straight line
 Parallel parking
 Approaching intersections
 Turning
 Stopping in regular traffic conditions
 Controlling the vehicle
 Observing traffic
 Maintaining vehicle position (turning, stopping,
etc.)
 Using signals
If at any time a dangerous or illegal maneuver is
performed, the drive test will be immediately stopped
and will result in an automatic failure.
After the Drive Test
After you complete the drive test, you will be
informed if you passed or failed. You will also receive
detailed feedback on the areas where you did well
and the areas where you need to improve.
If you do not pass the drive test, your application will
be held in the driver license office for 90 days. After
90 days ─ or three failed tests ─ a new application and
fee must be submitted.
Becoming a safe driver
is an ongoing process.