What to bring with you when you are applying
as a Teen Driver for your Provisional Driver License
There are two phases you will need to complete before graduating to a full driver license. This is called the
Graduated Driver License Program for teens. To be issued a provisional driver license (phase II) in the
state of Texas, you must bring the following documentation to your local driver license office:
1. Application for a Provisional Texas Driver License
2. Proof of Identity (Your Texas Learner License is sufficient)
3. Evidence of Lawful Status (If you are not a U.S. Citizen)
4. Provide Social Security Number
5. Proof of Completion for an Impact Texas Driver (ITD) course
6. Proof of Completion for Driver Education
7. Proof of Insurance (if you will be taking a driving test)
8. Issuance Fee
This checklist will help you identify what documents in each section you will need to bring to your local driver
license office so that you may obtain your provisional DL. Follow the directions listed for each section, and
check the appropriate document(s) you have that you can bring with you.
To start the application process, first complete all sections and collect your documents. All visits to the driver
license office are by appointment only and require your and a parent or legal guardian to be present. Visit
https://public.txdpsscheduler.com/ to schedule an appointment.
Section 1. Proof of Identity
A. Acceptable Identification Document List. Documents must be original or a copy certified by the issuing
agency. No photocopies are accepted.
Check one document you have from this section. This will be your proof of identity.
☐ Texas DL or ID within two years of expiration ☐ Unexpired US passport book or passport card
☐ US Citizenship Certificate or Certificate of
Naturalization with identifiable photo (N-550, N560, N-561, N-570, or N-578)
☐ Unexpired US military photo ID card for active
duty, reserve, or retired personnel
☐ Unexpired Foreign passport, visa* (Visa may be valid or expired), and I-94
Unexpired Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS) photo ID. Examples include:
☐ US citizen Identification card (I-179 or I-197) ☐ Permanent Resident card (I-551)
☐ Machine-Readable Immigrant Visa (MRIV) with
temporary I-551 language and Alien Documentation,
Identification and Telecommunications System
(ADIT) stamp
☐ Employment Authorization card “EAD” (I-766)
☐ Advance parole document with photo (I-512 or I-512L)
☐ I-94 stamped “Sec. 208 Asylee” with photo ☐ I-94 stamped “Sec. 207 Refugee” with photo
☐ Valid refugee travel letter with photo and stamped
by US Customs and Border Protection (CBP)
☐ Northern Mariana card (I-873)
☐ American Indian card (I-872)
☐ A birth certificate or birth record issued by the appropriate State Bureau of Vital Statistics or equivalent
agency from a US state or local government, a US territory, the District of Columbia, or a Canadian
province
☐ For U.S. citizens born abroad, a certificate of Report of Birth (DS-1350 or FS-545) or Consular Report of
Birth (FS-240) issued by the U.S. Department of State
☐ A court order with name and date of birth indicating an official change of name and/or gender from a US
state, a US territory, the District of Columbia, or a Canadian province
DL-68 (Rev. 10-2025) ☐ Temporary receipt for a Texas DL or ID (actual
receipt)
☐ Expired Texas DL or ID (expired more than two
years—actual card)
☐ DL or ID issued by another US state, US territory,
District of Columbia, or Canadian province
(unexpired or within two years of the expiration
date – actual card)*
☐ Original or certified copy of a marriage
certificate or divorce decree (US jurisdiction or
foreign jurisdiction-if not in English, a certified
translation must accompany it)
☐ Pilot’s license (actual card)* ☐ Concealed handgun license or License to Carry
(actual card)*
☐ Unexpired US military dependent ID card (actual
card)
☐ Professional license issued by Texas state
agency
☐ Veteran’s ID or Health Identification card “VHIC”
(actual card)
☐ School records (e.g. report cards, photo ID
cards, etc.)*
☐ Voter registration card (actual card)* ☐ Military records (e.g., Form DD-214)
☐ W-2 or 1099 form ☐ Selective Service card (actual card)
☐ Current Texas motor vehicle registration or title
(TRC 521.144)
☐ Any insurance policy (valid continuously for the
past two years)
☐ ID card issued by government agency* ☐ Current Texas boat registration or title
☐ Hospital-issued birth record* ☐ Medicare or Medicaid card (actual card)
☐ Immunization records* ☐ Unexpired foreign passport
☐ A valid Consular document issued by a state or
national government
☐ Tribal membership card from a federally
recognized tribe
☐ Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ)
parole or mandatory release certificate
☐ Texas inmate ID card or similar form of ID
issued by TDCJ
☐ Federal inmate ID card ☐ Federal parole or release certificate
☐ Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB) ☐ Social Security card (actual card)
*Document must be issued by an institution, entity or government agency from a US state, a US territory, the District of Columbia, or a
Canadian province.
.
Section 2. Proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence
If you are a United States Citizen and have already presented this documentation to the Department, you may skip
this section and proceed to Section 3. If you have a Limited-Term Texas driver license, you will be required to
present updated evidence of lawful presence. Most documents will be verified through the US Department of
Homeland Security’s SAVE Program. Verification through SAVE is often instantaneous, but when it is not, receipt of
the DL/ID may be delayed for up to 30 days.
Check one document you have from this list that contains your full legal name. This will be your proof of
U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence in the United States.
☐ Birth certificate or birth record issued by the appropriate State Bureau of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency
from a US state or local government, a US territory, or the District of Columbia
☐ US Passport Book or Passport card ☐ US Citizen Identification card (I-179 or I-197)
☐ Permanent Resident card (I-551) ☐ I-94
☐ I-94 stamped “Sec. 208 Asylee” or “Sec. 207
Refugee”
☐ US Travel Document (I-327 or I-571)
☐ Employment Authorization Card “EAD” (I-766) ☐ I-551 stamp in foreign passport
☐ US Department of State Certificate of Birth Abroad
issued to US citizens born abroad (Form FS-240,
DS-1350, or FS-545)
☐ US Citizenship Certificate or Certificate of
Naturalization (N-550, N-560, N-561, N-570, or
N-578)
☐ Machine Readable Immigrant Visa with temporary
I-551 language and ADIT stamp
☐ Student documents with Student Exchange and
Visitor Information System (SEVIS) number
☐ I-20 Non-immigrant students (F-1) ☐ DS-2019 Exchange Visitor (J-1) certificate
☐ Non-student documents with alien number or I-94 numberSection 3. Proof of Impact Texas Driver (ITD) Course completion and Driving Test
You must have successfully completed an ITD program within 90 days of taking your driving test. Select one:
☐ I have completed the ITD Course and driving test at a Certified Driver Training School and will be
bringing the driving test results to the driver license office in a sealed, unaltered envelope
☐ I have completed the ITD Course and driving test through a Public School Driver Education Program and
will be bringing the driving test results to the driver license office in a sealed, unaltered envelope
☐ I have completed the ITD course within the previous 90 days and will be taking the driving test at my local
driver license office. I will be bringing my ITD Course completion Certificate.
Section 5. Driver Education
You must provide a certificate of completion from your course provider for both the classroom and behind-the-wheel
portions of driver education. Select one:
☐ Commercial Driver Training School (Form DE-964/DEE-964)
☐ Parent Taught Driver Education (Form DE-964/DEE-964)
☐ Public School Driver Education (DE-964E)
Section 6. Proof of Insurance
If you have not taken the driving skills exam during driver education, you will be required to successfully pass the
drive test at your local driver license office. Once you have completed all of the requirements on this checklist, you
may schedule your drive test at https://txdpsscheduler.com/
☐ Proof of Insurance (for the vehicle you will be using for the driving skills exam, if applicable)
Upon completing all sections, gather the documents you have checked and bring them to your local driver
license office to begin the renewal process.
Section 4. Provide Social Security Number
You must provide your social security number. If the number is not already part of your driver record, the
Department will verify SSN number electronically with the Social Security Administration (SSA). If the SSN cannot
be verified, the Department will be unable to issue your Provisional License and additional instructions will be
provided.