TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF LICENSING & REGULATION DRIVER EDUCATION & SAFETY AT A GLANCE Statutes: Chapter 1001, Education Code Rules: Title 16 T.A.C. Chapter 84 Practice Act? Yes Title Act? Yes Inspections? Yes Facilities? Yes Individuals? Yes Webpage: www.tdlr.texas.gov/driver Number of Licensees: 3,427 (FY 25) Driver Education Instructor: 2,505 Driver Education Provider—Primary: 434 Driver Education Provider—Branch: 114 Driving Safety Provider: 317 Online Only Driver Education Provider: 19 Parent-Taught Driver Education Provider: 38 Overview: Anyone between the ages of 14 and 25 who wants to apply for a driver license in Texas must complete a driver education course before receiving a license. Students have three options for completing a driver education course: ● Enrolling in a driver education school ● Enrolling in a parent taught course ● Completing driver education at a public school, education service center, college, or university. TDLR maintains a list of driver education providers: Driver Education Provider Search (texas.gov). Instruction The classroom phase of a driver education course is at least 24 hours. The in-car phase consists of 7 hours of behind-the-wheel driving, 7 hours of in-car observation, and an additional 30 hours of behind-the-wheel driving (10 of these hours must be done at night). The additional 30 hours of behind-the-wheel driving is monitored by the parent or guardian and is not required to be provided by a licensed driver education provider. However, the hours must be completed in the presence of an adult who holds a valid license, is 21 or older, has at least one year of driving experience, and occupies the seat next to the driver. ● To obtain a Learner License, a student must be 15 years of age or older; have completed the first 6 hours of driver education or all 24 hours of classroom instruction; and have received a Texas driver education certificate of completion (DE-964). ● To obtain a Provisional License, a student must have held the learner license for at least 6 months, be 16 years old or older, have completed all driver education hours (24 classroom and 44 in-car hours) and pass the driving exam. Once the driving exam is successfully completed, the Texas Department of Public Safety will issue a driver license. Curriculum Driver Education & Safety Providers must use Texas Education Code 1001, 16 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 84, and the program guides when teaching a driver education & safety course. During a legislative session, there may be mandates that require changes to the Driver Education & Safety curriculum. Each Driver Education & Safety Provider is required to make these necessary changes in order to be in compliance and meet the obligations as a TDLR licensed Driver Education & Safety Provider. TDLR also oversees Driving Safety courses. Driving safety courses must encourage the observance of traffic laws and try to reduce the number of traffic violations and traffic-related injuries, deaths, and economic losses. Classes must be at least 6 hours long if they are to be used for traffic citation dismissal. The court must approve taking a driving safety course to dismiss a citation. A driving safety course must cost at least $25.00. License Required to Operate School or Teach A person may not operate a school or course unless the person holds a Driver Training Provider license. A person may not teach a driver education course unless the person holds a driver education instructor license. Driver Education Instructor license: TAC 84.44 ● hold a valid class A, B, C, or CDL driver’s license, other than a learner license or provisional license, for the preceding three years, that has not been revoked or suspended in the preceding three years; ● submit a national criminal history record information review fee; and ● provide fingerprints to the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) through the IdentoGo Fingerprint Service or any other method required by the DPS. ● A license fee of $50.00 Driver Education Provider license ● $10,000.00 driver education bond ● Assumed Name Registration document from the Texas Secretary of States office ● Registered Agent – If business is located outside of Texas ● $500.00 application fee ● $300.00 endorsement fee (online, in-person, parent taught) ● Driver education curriculum that includes the required topics in the program of organized instruction, and requirements in Texas Administrative Code Chapter 84, Texas Education Code 1001 For more information, please contact the TDLR Office of Strategic Communication: media.inquiries@tdlr.texas.gov.
TDLR AAG FORM-032 Dec. 2025 DRIVER EDUCATION & SAFETY AT A GLANCE Driving Safety Provider license ● $10,00.00 Driving Safety Provider Bond ● Assumed Name Registration document from the Texas Secretary of States office ● Registered Agent if the business is located outside of Texas ● $500.00 application fee ● Driving safety curriculum that meets the required topics in the course of instruction, and requirements in Texas Administrative Code Chapter 84, Texas Education Code 1001 A driver education instructor shall carry their instructor license at all times while instructing a driver education course. The Driver Training and Traffic Safety Advisory Board has 9 members serving staggered 6-year terms, which includes: ● Three driver education providers ● Three driving safety providers ● One driver education instructor ● One representative of the Department of Public Safety ● One public member License Fee Driver Education Instructor (Initial) $50 Driver Education Instructor (Renewal) $25 Driver Education Provider (Initial In-person) $500 Driver Education Provider (Initial Online) $500 Driver Education Provider (Initial Parent-Taught) $500 Driver Education Provider (Initial Branch) $500 Driver Education Provider Endorsement $300 Driver Education Provider (Renewal Primary) $100 Driver Education Provider (Renewal Branch) $100 Driver Education Certificate of Completion $1.00 Driving Safety Provider (Initial) $500 Driving Safety Provider (Renewal) $100 Driving Safety Course Completion Certificate $1.00 1 PROGRAM OF ORGANIZED INSTRUCTION (POI) FOR DRIVER EDUCATION AND TRAFFIC SAFET Y 32-Hour Course (POI-DE) www.tdlr.texas.gov February 2021 1 PROGRAM OF ORGANIZED INSTRUCTION (POI) FOR DRIVER EDUCATION AND TRAFFIC SAFET Y Exclusively for Adults Six-Hour Course (POI-Adult Six-Hour) www.tdlr.texas.gov February 2021 1 COURSE OF ORGANIZED INSTRUCTION FOR DRIVING SAFETY 6-Hour Driving Safety Course (COI-Driving Safety) February 2021 www.tdlr.texas.gov