Driver Education and Safety
>
Driver Education
>
Parent Taught
Classroom Instruction
Become an Instructor
Classroom Instruction
Learner License
Behind the Wheel
Provisional License
On this page:
Choosing a Course
Beginning Instruction
Taking the Written Exam
Choosing a Course
You'll need to purchase the classroom portion of the course from from a licensed course provider.
FIND A COURSE
The courses range in price, and TDLR cannot recommend specific courses, but all courses have been reviewed to meet educational standards.
Hybrid Instruction
You also have the option of completing the classroom hours at a driver education provider or through a public school. See the
hybrid instruction
page for more details.
Beginning Instruction
After you have received confirmation of your
instructor designation
from TDLR and the training materials from the approved course provider, you may begin instruction.
Texas Driver Handbook
All driver education students must have access to a current edition of the Texas Driver Handbook. This publication is now available online only.
Texas Driver Handbook - English (PDF)
Texas Driver Handbook - Spanish (PDF)
Instruction Limitations
The program includes both classroom and in-car instruction phases.
Instruction is limited to: six hours per day, including not more than two hours of behind-the-wheel instruction per day.
Taking the Written Exam
The written exam may be included as part of instruction by the commercial parent course provider. If they do not administer an exam, the student will take the exam at DPS when they go to
get their Learner License
.
The student will be eligible to take the written driver’s license exam when they:
are at least 15 years old
have completed sufficient classroom instruction
have received the certificate of completion (DE-964) from the course provider
If you have trouble getting the parent course provider to send you the student’s completion certificate (DE-964), please
email TDLR customer service
with the full name of the student and the name of the parent-taught course.