Parent-Taught Driver Education
How to Become a Parent-Taught Driver Education Instructor
Become an Instructor
Classroom Instruction
Learner License
Behind the Wheel
Provisional License
On this page:
Determine Your Eligibility
Get Your Driving Record
Apply for Instructor Authorization
Change of Instructor
Be aware that parent-taught driver education is a commitment that will require at least 7 weeks of daily instruction with your student. Instructors must accompany students to the DPS office on two occassions.
Determine Your Eligibility
The first step you'll take is to verify that the instructor and student are both eligible to participate in the program.
Instructor Eligibility
There are specific requirements that instructors must meet, including having an excellent driving history and not being convicted of certain criminal offenses. If you hold a driver license with the B restriction you will not be a qualified instructor.
Verify Your Eligibility
An alternate instructor may be designated by a parent, legal guardian, or judge. The alternate instructor must meet the same qualifications as the parent and may not charge a fee.
Student Eligibility
Students under 18 years old who do not hold a high-school diploma or equivalent must meet one of the following conditions:
be enrolled in public school, home school or private school for at least the past 80 days
be enrolled in a high school equivalency preparation program for at least the past 45 days
Students must be making satisfactory academic progress and meet attendance requirements of the school.
See the
verification of enrollment page
for details.
Get Your Driving Record (Optional)
The Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) will verify the instructor’s driving record
twice
— once when the student’s applies for the learner license and again when the student applies for the provisional driver license.
If DPS determines at any time that the instructor's driving record disqualifies them from being an instructor, DPS will deny the student's license application and invalidate any of the instruction hours that occurred after the instructor became ineligible.
Although this step is optional, it is recommended for anyone who has received a moving violation or was involved in an accident during the past three years.
Purchase a Copy of Your Driving Record
Apply for Instructor Authorization
The next step is to request an authorization from TDLR for the parent-instructor to teach the student. The fee to apply is $20.
All application fees are non-refundable. The application must be completed online. Paper applications will not be accepted.
This step allows one specific parent to teach one specific student. You must submit a separate application for each child you will be teaching.
The student’s legal name must be entered on the form
exactly as it appears
on the birth certificate and other documents you’ll present to DPS when it’s time for them to get the learner driver license and the provisional license at the end of the course.
APPLY FOR INSTRUCTOR DESIGNATION
If an alternate instructor is chosen, you must also include that person's information on the application form.
After you complete the application, you’ll receive an email link with additional information.
Once we have processed your application, TDLR will not send a text or email referring you to a specific driver education provider or course.
You are now ready to
begin teaching your student
!
Download the Guide
After applying for instructor authorization, you can return to the
Parent Instructor Portal
at any time to view your instructor status and download the program guide.
You should also receive the program guide by email.
Change of Instructor
If you need to change instructors at any point during the instruction, please
contact customer service
with following information:
student's full name
student's date of birth
new instructor’s name
the receipt number for your parent-taught instructor designation application