PARENT TAUGHT DRIVER EDUCATION PROGRAM These are the steps parents/instructors must follow when teaching their student how to drive. Step 1: Determine your eligibility1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 https://www.tdlr.texas.gov/driver/education/ parent-taught/parent-instructors.htm Instructor Instructor eligibility Student Student eligibility Step 2: Apply for Instructor Designation Services The Parent/Instructor will submit an application to become the instructor. The fee to apply is $20.00 and a separate application must be submitted for each child you will be teaching. https://www.tdlr.texas.gov/ ParentTaught/PTSelect.aspx Step 3: Read the Parent Taught Program Guide After the Instructor Designation Services application is processed, the Parent Taught Program Guide will be emailed to you.Step 4: Research, Select, & Purchase a Parent Taught Course Driver Education Provider Search. Step 5: You are now ready to begin Parent Taught Step 6: Obtaining a Learner License Certificate of Completion Most parent taught providers will issue the Learner License Certificate of Completion once the student has completed Module One. Some providers will issue the Learner License Certificate of Completion when the student completes the full 24 hours of classroom phase. Step 7: Schedule an appointment with Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) Students must take the Learner License Certificate of Completion to DPS along with a high school diploma, its equivalent (GED) or completed Verification of Enrollment and Attendance (VOE) form. Check DPS website for the full list of required documents: Texas Learners License as a Teen. Students must have a Learner License before they may begin any behind-the-wheel training. Step 8: Complete remaining classroom phase and in-car training Students will complete the remaining portion of the course and will receive a Driver License Certificate of Completion upon successful completion. In addition to the 24 hours of classroom, 7 hours of observation, and 7 hours of behind the wheel, students must complete 30 additional hours of in-car training including at least 10 hours of nighttime practice, in the presence of a person at least 21 years of age, has at least one year of driving experience, and holds a valid driver license. Step 9: Complete the Impact Teens Driver Program (ITTD) The ITTD program is a DPS course created to educate drivers about the risks and consequences of distracted driving, ultimately saving lives. The course must be completed within 90 days of taking the driving test. Step 10: Schedule Second Appointment with DPS Students must take the Driver License Certificate of Completion to DPS along with the ITTD Program Certificate. Check DPS website for the full list of required documents Texas Provisional License as a Teen. Step 11: Congratulations, you are ready to drive! Students will be issued a Provisional License that allows students to drive independently with some restrictions. Those restrictions are: Passengers—May not drive with more than one passenger in the vehicle under 21 who is not a family member. Curfew—Driving is restricted between midnight and 5 a.m. unless for work, school activities, or emergencies. No cell phones allowed—All cell phone use is prohibited, including hands- free devices unless it’s an emergency. Step 12: Driver License This Provisional License expires on the student’s 18th birthday. After turning 18, the student must renew the license to receive a regular driver license without restrictions.