Driver Education and Safety
>
Driver Education
Getting Started with Parent-Taught Driver Education
The parent taught program is a driver education course that is instructed by the parent, guardian, or designee. The course consists of 24 hours of classroom instruction, 7 hours of observation, 7 hours of behind-the-wheel training, and 30 additional hours of behind-the-wheel training.
Before beginning the parent taught program, you must thoroughly read through the webpages below. These pages provide you with the steps needed to successfully enroll your student into a parent taught course.
Step-by-Step Guide
Download the convenient one-page
Step-by-Step Guide (PDF)
for the Parent Taught Driver Education Program.
Step 1
Eligibility and Authorization
The parent, guardian, or designee, and student must first verify their eligibility to participate in the parent taught program. The parent, guardian, or designee must then apply for authorization to conduct a driver education course.
Becoming a Parent Taught Instructor
Step 2
Selecting a Classroom Course
You’ll need to purchase the curriculum from a licensed driver education provider with the parent-taught endorsement.
The classroom instruction page will help you to choose a course, learn about methods of instruction, and provide helpful info on taking the written exam.
Learn About Courses
Step 3
Learner License
After the student has completed sufficient classroom hours, they can apply for a learner license at the DPS driver license office.
The learner license page has information on when you can apply, and what you need to bring with you.
Get a Learner License
Step 4
Selecting a Behind the Wheel Course
If you have not done so already, you must purchase the curriculum from a licensed driver education provider with the parent taught endorsement.
Find a Course
The in-car instruction and practice phase consist of 44 hours of training; 7 hours of in-car observation, 7 hours of behind the wheel training, and 30 hours of behind-the-wheel instruction, including at least 10 hours of nighttime instruction, in the presence of an adult who meets the requirements of Texas Transportation Code, §521.222(d)
Start Driving
Step 5
Provisional License
After the student has completed all instructional and practice hours, they are eligible to test for a provisional license.
If the student is under 18, they must have held a valid learner’s license for at least six months.
Get the License