Driver Education and Safety
Frequently Asked Questions for Students
1. How can I get a duplicate certificate of completion for a driver education course?
To get a duplicate certificate of completion (the DE-964 or DE-964E Certificate of Completion), contact the driver education school you attended. If you completed a parent-taught course, contact the driver education provider with the parent taught endorsement.
2. My child dropped out of high school and has been told that they cannot get a driver license until they are 18. Is that true?
Yes. Persons under 18 must be
enrolled and attending school
as a condition of being licensed to operate a motor vehicle, unless the person has a high school diploma or GED.
3. I am enrolled in a teen driver education course and I just turned 18. Can I use the time I have already completed as proof of completion of my 6-hour adult driver education course?
No. Teen driver education classroom hours cannot be applied to the 6-hour adult driver education classroom hour requirements. You must complete the full adult driver course or complete the full teen driver education program.
4. If I start at one driver education school, am I allowed to transfer to a different school?
Yes, you may
transfer to another driver education school
, as long as your previous school was licensed in Texas. For more information about transfers, please
contact driver education and safety program staff
.
5. Can I transfer from an out-of-state driving school?
Out of state hours do not transfer to Texas. You will need to
enroll into a Texas driver education program
to complete the classroom and driving requirements necessary to obtain a Texas learner’s permit and driver license. Please check with DPS for more information.
6. Can I take a driver education course in American Sign Language?
Yes. TDLR has created a
driver education course in ASL
that is intended to provide persons who are deaf or hard of hearing a way to fully participate in the classroom portion of the course. The ASL course is entirely optional.
The course must be taken through a licensed driver education school to receive a certificate of completion that will allow you to test for a learner license or driver’s license with DPS.
Ask your provider about the ASL course before you choose a driver education school. TDLR does not maintain information on which providers offer the ASL course.