Driver Education and Safety
>
Driver Education
Do I Need to Take Driver Education in Texas?
Use this page to determine whether you need to take a driver education course to apply for a Texas driver license.
How old are you now?
Do you have a valid, unexpired driver’s license from another state?
Submit
You Don't Need to Take Driver Education!
Persons over the age of 25 are not required to take a driver education course to apply for a Texas Driver’s license.
Please see the Texas DPS
How to Apply for a Texas Driver License webpage
for details on how to apply.
You Don't Need to Take Driver Education!
Based on the answers you provided, you are not required to take a driver education course to apply for a Texas Driver’s license, however all applicants under 18 must take the skills exam (in-car driving test) to receive a Texas license.
Please see the Texas DPS
Moving to Texas webpage
for details on how to apply.
You Will Need to Take a Driver Education Course
All persons under 25 years old must take a driver education course to get a Texas driver’s license.
A teenager can start the classroom portion of a driver education course when they are 14 years old, but must wait until they are at least 15 before they can apply for a learner license.
Find a Driver Education Course
Getting Started with Parent-Taught Driver Education
Because you’re under 18 years old, you will need to take the full driver-education course, which consists of 24 hours of classroom instruction and 44 hours of in-car driving with an instructor.
You have several options for where and how you can take driver’s education.
You can take a course at your public high-school, it it’s offered
Take a class with a
driver education provider
Parent-taught driver education
Because you’re over 18 years old, you have additional options:
You may complete a 6-hour adult driver education course with a
driver education provider
Take a 24-hour minor driver education course with a
driver education provider
Complete a
parent-taught driver education
course
If you choose to take the 24-hour course, you may be able to complete some testing requirements with your driver education provider, rather than at DPS.